reframe the governance (#19)
tikv/community: GOVERNANCE.md

> **Note**
>
> This is a **Work in Progress**. Stay tuned for more follow-up updates!

# Governance

TiKV is a community driven project. Anyone with an interest in the project can join the community, contribute to the project design and participate in the decision making process. This document describes how that participation takes place and how to set about earning merit within the project community.

## Code of Conduct

The TiKV community follows the TiKV Code of Conduct. Here are some excerpts:

> > In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as contributors and maintainers pledge to making participation in our project and our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size, disability, ethnicity, sex characteristics, gender identity and expression, level of experience, education, socio-economic status, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

Reviewer: Link to our existing project wide CoC after please

The project is comprised of and operated by the following types of subgroups:

- Project Management Committee, PMC
- Maintainers
- Organizer Committee
- Developer Group
    - Special Interest Groups, SIGs
    - Working Groups, WGs

### Project Management Committee

The PMC functions as the core management team that oversees the TiKV community. The PMC has additional responsibilities over and above those of Maintainers. These responsibilities ensure the smooth running of the project. PMC members are expected to review code contributions, participate in strategic planning, approve changes to the governance model and manage the copyrights within the project outputs.

Members of the PMC do not have significant authority over other members of the community, although it is the PMC that votes on new Maintainers or Committers, and makes all major decisions for the future with respect to TiKV, such as project-level governance policies, management of sub-structures, security processes and so on. It also makes decisions when community consensus cannot be reached. In addition, the PMC has access to the project’s private mailing list and its archives.

> Membership of the PMC is by invitation from the existing PMC members. A nomination will result in discussion and then a vote by the existing PMC members. PMC membership votes are subject to consensus approval of the current PMC members.

Reviewer 2: Should we have a PMC nominated criteria and vote procedure?

Author: Yes. That's to be updated.

> Given that PingCAP has built and supported this project in the first place, they reserve the right to appoint and form the first committee for a period of first year from the time this document becomes effective. Future PMC numbers are generated based on the rules described above.

Author: Some explanation regarding the current PMC members and how future PMC is generated

Reviewer: I don't think the general tone of the first sentence is really in line with our communication. Let's pick something more humble:

> For the first formation of the committee our maintainers nominated a group of people who had great impact or influence on the project, including some members from PingCAP who founded TiKV. Future PMC numbers are generated based on the rules described above.

Author: Sounds great!

> For the first formation of the committee our maintainers nominated a group of people who had great impact or influence on the project, including some members from PingCAP who founded TiKV. Future PMC numbers are generated based on the rules described above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the first formation of the committee our maintainers nominated a group of people who had great impact or influence on the project, including some members from PingCAP who founded TiKV. New PMC members are selected based on the rules described above.
```

> The number of PMC members should be limited to 6. This number is chosen to ensure that sufficient points of view are represented, while preserving the efficiency of the decision making process. For a list of the current PMC members, see the [PMC Members](/committee/.README.md#members).

Reviewer 3: Why not choose an odd number?

Author: Remove this number for now for future decision.

<!--- need the link to a Guiding Principals (Missions, Values; to be added separately) page as the principals for PMC -->

### Maintainers

> While the PMC is the core management group that oversees the project, Maintainers are the technical authority in the Developer Group who function as planners and designers of the project. Maintainers set technical direction and priorities for the sub-project, and ensure its continued health and development. They make or approve design decisions for the project - either directly or by delegating these responsibilities. Maintainers are appointed by the PMC with anonymous votes.

Reviewer 4: with anonymous votes?

Author: changed to majority

> While the PMC is the core management body that oversees the project, Maintainers are the technical authority in the Developer Group who function as planners and designers of the project. Maintainers set technical direction and priorities for the sub-project, and ensure its continued health and development. They make or approve design decisions for the project - either directly or by delegating these responsibilities. Maintainers are appointed by the PMC with anonymous votes.

Author: Added Maintainers here @Hoverbear

> While the PMC is the core management body that oversees the project, Maintainers are the technical authority in the Developer Group who function as planners and designers of the project. Maintainers set technical direction and priorities for the sub-project, and ensure its continued health and development. They make or approve design decisions for the project - either directly or by delegating these responsibilities. Maintainers are appointed by the PMC with anonymous votes.

Reviewer 3: > ...core management body that oversees...

The word "body" looks weird to me. Maybe person is better?

Author: It's not a person, more of a group of people.

Reviewer 3: "body" seems more like a biological word to me. Can you show me similar usages?

Reviewer: "A statutory authority is a body set up by law which is authorised to enact legislation on behalf of the relevant country or state." - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statutory_authority

<!---to add Working Group governance link -->

## Contributions

Anyone can contribute to the project, regardless of their skills, as there are many ways to contribute. The various ways of contributing are described in more detail in a separate document. For details, see [Contributing to TiKV](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Support

All participants in the community are encouraged to provide support for new users within the project management infrastructure. This support is provided as a way of growing the community. Those seeking support should recognize that all support activity within the project is voluntary and is therefore provided as and when time allows. A user requiring guaranteed response times or results should therefore seek to purchase a support contract from a community member. However, for those willing to engage with the project on its own terms, and willing to help support other users, the community support channels are ideal.

## Decision Making Process

> Decisions about the future of the project are made by the PMC. New proposals and ideas (changes of major features, organization, or processes) can be brought to the PMC’s attention through the [Request for Change (RFC)](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs)process. For the change to happen, the RFC must earn the majority votes in the PMC.

Reviewer 3: So although maintainers "set technical direction and priorities for the sub-project" and "make or approve design decisions for the project", but a features proposal still needs majority votes to get it merged?

Author: Agree.

Author: Maybe need further clarification here.  What about now?

> Depending on the nature, decisions about the future of the project are made by the PMC or by Maintainers. As the technical authority, Maintainers set technical direction and priorities for the sub-project, while PMC make other high-level decisions like establishment and operation policies of sub-projects, sub-structures, promoting new Maintainers, security processes, etc. Tech New proposals and ideas (changes of major features, organization, or processes) can be brought to the PMC or Maintainers’ attention through the [Request for Change (RFC)](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs) process. For the change to happen, the RFC must earn the majority votes in the corresponding group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the nature, decisions about the future of the project are made by the PMC or by Maintainers. As the technical authority, Maintainers set technical direction and priorities for the sub-project, while PMC make other high-level decisions like establishment and operation policies of sub-projects, sub-structures, promoting new Maintainers, security processes, etc. Tech New proposals and ideas (changes of major features, organization, or processes) can be brought to the PMC or Maintainers’ attention through the [Request for Comments (RFC)](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs) process. For the change to happen, the RFC must earn the majority votes in the corresponding group.
```

- Maintainers
- Special Interest Groups (SIGs)
- Users

### Maintainer

Maintainers are first and foremost contributors that have shown they are committed to the long term success of a project. They are the planners and designers of the TiKV project. Maintainership is about building trust with the current maintainers of the project and being a person that they can depend on to make decisions in the best interest of the project in a consistent manner.

While maintainership indicates a valued member of the community who has demonstrated a healthy respect for the project’s aims and objectives, their work must still be reviewed by the community before being accepted into an official release. This means that a Maintainer is not allowed to merge their changes without approval from another reviewer. However, they are allowed to sidestep this rule under exceptional circumstances if the changes are approved through other means than the standard process.

#### How to become a Maintainer

Contributors wanting to become maintainers are expected to:

- Enable and promote successful adoptions on the user or ecosystem end
- Collaborate well

> - Demonstrate a deep and comprehensive understanding of TiKV's architecture, technical goals, and directions

Author: I make these more general to make them include both maintainers from committers and eco-system.

> **Note:**
>
> This is a **Work in Progress**. Stay tuned for more follow-up updates!

# TiKV Governance

>  This document describes the governance rules of the TiKV project (organization). It is meant to be followed by all the repositories under the TiKV organization.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
 This document describes the governance rules of the TiKV project (organization). It is meant to be followed by all projects in the TiKV organization.
```

Sorry, I know I already requested a change here

    - [SIGs](#sigs)
    - [Users](#users)
- [Approving PRs](#approving-prs)
- [Decision making and voting](#decision-making-and-voting)
    - [Proposal process](#proposal-process)
- [Adding new SIGs/projects](#adding-new-sigsprojects)

## Code of Conduct

The TiKV community follows the [CNCF Code of Conduct](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Community groups and roles

The TiKV project is comprised of the following types of contributing groups:

- Maintainers
- Special Interest Groups (SIGs)
- Users

### Maintainer

Maintainers are first and foremost contributors that have shown they are committed to the long term success of a project. They are the planners and designers of the TiKV project. Maintainership is about building trust with the current maintainers of the project and being a person that they can depend on to make decisions in the best interest of the project in a consistent manner.

While maintainership indicates a valued member of the community who has demonstrated a healthy respect for the project’s aims and objectives, their work must still be reviewed by the community before being accepted into an official release.

> A Maintainer is not allowed to merge their change without approval from another person. However, they are allowed to sidestep this rule under justifiable circumstances that was approved through other means than the standard process.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
A Maintainer is not allowed to merge their change without approval from another person. However, they are allowed to sidestep this rule under justifiable circumstances that was approved through other means than the standard process.
```
```suggestion
A Maintainer is not allowed to merge their changes without approval from another reviewer. However, they are allowed to sidestep this rule under exceptional circumstances if the changes are approved through other means than the standard process.
```

#### How to become a Maintainer

Contributors wanting to become maintainers are expected to:

- Enable and promote successful adoptions on the user or ecosystem end
- Actively Propose features to TiKV that are later implemented with great significance to the project direction and the eco-system
- Able to promote substained collaboration within the project
- Demonstrate a deep and comprehensive understanding of TiKV's codebase, technical goals, and directions
- Handle complex problems in the code implementation process

> A new Maintainer must be self-nominated or nominated by an existing Maintainer by updating [TiKV Maintainers](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.md#the-tikv-maintainers). This triggers a voting process that requires supermajority votes from the current Maintainers.

Reviewer 5: I think allowing self-nomination is a mistake - if a candidate can't find a single maintainer to nominate them, then it's unlikely they'll be approved (for a candidate there is not much difference from self-nominating and asking a maintainer to nominate you).

Author: Good point.

### Users

Users are community members who have a need for the project. They are the most important members of the community and without them the project would have no purpose. Anyone can be a user; there are no special requirements.

The project asks its users to participate in the project and community as much as possible. User contributions enable the project team to ensure that they are satisfying the needs of those users. Common user contributions include (but are not limited to):

- evangelising about the project (e.g. a link on a website and word-of-mouth awareness raising)
- informing developers of strengths and weaknesses from a new user perspective
- providing moral support
- providing financial support

Users who continue to engage with the project and its community will often become more and more involved. Such users may find themselves becoming contributors, as described in the above section.

## Approving PRs

PRs may be merged only after receiving at least two approvals (LGTMs) from Reviewers, more previliged roles from the relevant SIGs, or even Maintainers.

## Decision making and voting

> Ideally, all project decisions are resolved by consensus via a PR or GitHub issue. Any of the day-to-day project maintenance can be done by a [lazy consensus](http://communitymgt.wikia.com/wiki/Lazy_consensus) model. Cross-SIG or community-level decisions must be brought to broader awareness via community meetings, slack channels, etc.

Reviewer 5: Is an RFC enough? I think it should be. There should probably be an async way to communicate this sort of thing, e.g. via the monthly newsletter (perhaps that is too low frequency?)

Author: Yeah  monthly community meeting and our monthly newsletter, plus slack should be enough for async communication

Reviewer 5: Community meeting and Slack are both synchronous communication (because somebody in a different timezone might miss things). Monthly newsletter should be enough for async, we can experiment.

> **Note:**
>
> This is a **Work in Progress**. Stay tuned for more follow-up updates!

# TiKV Governance

This document describes the governance rules of the TiKV project (organization). It is meant to be followed by all the repositories in the project and TiKV contributors.

## Code of Conduct

The TiKV community follows the [CNCF Code of Conduct](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). Here are some excerpts:

> In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as contributors and maintainers pledge to making participation in our project and our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size, disability, ethnicity, sex characteristics, gender identity and expression, level of experience, education, socio-economic status, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

## Community Roles and Responsibilities

Refer to [Community Membership](/community-membership.md).

## Community Groups

![community organization](/media/governance/community_organization.png)

The project is comprised of and operated by the following subgroups:

> - Project Management Committee (PMC)

Author: Removed OMC

The PMC is responsible for maintaining the [Guiding Principles](/guiding-principles.md) and the code of conduct. It is also responsible for ensuring that those rules and principles are followed.

For a list of the current PMC members, see the [PMC Members](/committee/README.md#members).

### Developer Group

As the cornerstone of community development, the TiKV Developer Group consists of these roles: Maintainer, Committer, Reviewer, Active Contributor, and Contributor. Each role takes corresponding responsibilities in the community. Collectively they play an important role in the robust development of TiKV. For more details, refer to [Community Membership](/community-membership.md).

The Developer Group operates TiKV projects in two groups: Special Interest Group (SIG) and Working Group (WG). The diagram below illustrates the definition of the SIG and WG, the internal roles of the group, and the role promotion path.

![developer group](/media/governance/developer_group.png)

### Maintainers

> 

Author: I think Maintainers are still the core group here, as TiKV is pretty hardcore in the technical sense. This is so that Maintainers can be focus on the tech aspect of the work and let PMC handle other governance work.

While the PMC is the core management group that oversees the project at a community level, Maintainers are the technical authority who function as planners and designers of each sub-project. Maintainers set technical directions and priorities for the sub-project owned by the specific SIG, and ensure its sustained health and development. They make or approve design decisions for the project - either directly or by delegating these responsibilities. Maintainers are appointed by the PMC with supermajority votes.

If a Maintainer is no longer interested or cannot perform the Maintainer duties listed above, they should volunteer to be moved to emeritus status.

See [TiKV Maintainers](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.md#the-tikv-maintainers) for the list of current Maintainers.

#### SIGs

> The TiKV project is organized primarily into Special Interest Groups, or SIGs. Each SIG consists of members from multiple organizations or individuals, with a common purpose of advancing the TiKV project for a specific topic, such as Coprocessor or Documentation. The goal of an SIG is to enable a distributed decision structure and code ownership, as well as providing focused forums for getting work done, making decisions, and onboarding new contributors. Every identifiable subpart of the project (e.g., repository, subdirectory, API, test, issue, PR) is intended to be owned by the corresponding SIG.

Author: Good suggestion. @zhangjinpeng1987

> Currently, any Contributor within a SIG is immediately eligible member of that SIG. It is our intention to properly guide or mentor community members, and help them advance to the higher-level Reviewer, Committer within the SIG.

Author: Contributor becomes a SIG member immediately, but that SIG has to exist

Each SIG must have a charter that specifies its scope (topics, code repositories, and directories), responsibilities, areas of authority, how members and roles of authority/leadership are selected/granted, how decisions are made, and how conflicts are resolved. See the [SIG charter template](/sig-governance/SIG-CHARTER-TEMPLATE.md) for details on how charters are formed and managed. SIGs should be relatively free to customize or change how they operate, within some broad guidelines and constraints imposed by this Governance and [Sig Governance](/committee/sig-governance/sig-governance.md).

> A primary reason that SIGs exist is as forums for collaboration. Much work in a SIG should stay local within that SIG. However, SIGs must communicate to ensure other SIGs and community members can find notes of meetings, discussions, designs, and decisions, and periodically communicate a high-level summary of the SIG's work to the community.

Author: Like SIG meetings biweekly or monthly?

> SIGs are organized and operated by Tech Leads, which is a SIG internal role that oversees the health and sustained development of the SIG. Upon the initial establishment of a SIG, the maintainers will assign 2-3 Tech Leads.

Author: Or SIG Lead?

WG is subject to PMC's oversight over its formation and disbanding.

See [Working Group Governance](/governance/wg-governance.md) for more information on how a WG run.

## Contributions

Anyone can contribute to the project, regardless of their skills, as there are many ways to contribute. The various ways of contributing are described in more detail in a separate document. For details, see [Contributing to TiKV](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Decision making and voting

Proposals and ideas can be submitted for agreement via a github issue or PR. Depending on the nature, decisions about the future of the project are made by the PMC or by Maintainers. As the technical authority, Maintainers set technical direction and priorities for the SIG projects, while the PMC makes other high-level decisions like establishment and operation policies of sub-projects, sub-structures, promoting new Maintainers, security processes, etc.

> Major changes such as feature proposals and organization or process changes should be brought to the PMC or Maintainers’ attention through the [Request for Comments (RFC)](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs) process. For the change to happen, the RFC must earn the supermajority (2/3) votes in the corresponding group.

Reviewer 5: Again, I would say RFCs are accepted by consensus, not by vote. I think it would be good to let SIGs approve RFCs which will only affect their area and the PMC has to approve cross-cutting or strategic RFCs.

## Conflict resolution

In general, we prefer that technical issues and other disputes upon which consensus can't be reached are amicably worked out between the persons involved. If a dispute cannot be resolved independently, depending on the nature, the PMC or Maintainers can be called in to resolve the issue by voting based on the [Guiding Principles](/guiding-principles.md) and [CNCF Code of Conduct](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). The same PR can be used or a separate PR can be opened in the concerned repository for voting.

## Adding new projects

> New projects can be added to the TiKV organization via GitHub issue discussion in one of the existing SIG, as long as as they adheres to the [CNCF charter](https://www.cncf.io/about/charter/) and the guidelines in this governance. Once sufficient discussions have taken place, the Maintainers will decide whether the new project should be added. The requester needs to create an corresponding RFC for the change to happen, as described in [Decision Making and Voting](#decision-making-and-voting).

Reviewer 5: "in one of the existing SIG" what does it mean?

Author: updated

## Changes in Governance

Any change in this Governance document, or similar nature of changes to other governance related documents, shall be initiated as an RFC and go through the voting process as described in [Decision Making and Voting](#decision-making-and-voting).

## Credits

> The contents of this document are based on <http://oss-watch.ac.uk/resources/meritocraticgovernancemodel> by Ross Gardler and Gabriel Hanganu, and [Kubernetes Governance](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md).

Reviewer 5: I would suggest that basing the governance model on Kubernates is inappropriate because it is a well-established, large project, with  many large orgs involved who are materially affected by K8s decisions. TiKV should look to smaller projects for governance models (e.g., Ember, Rust, Linkerd, etc) and choose a more lightweight model.

> **Note:**
>
> This is a **Work in Progress**. Stay tuned for more follow-up updates!

# TiKV Governance

>  This document describes the governance rules of the TiKV project (organization). It is meant to be followed by all the repositories in the project and the TiKV project.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
 This document describes the governance rules of the TiKV project (organization). It is meant to be followed by all the repositories in the TiKV organization.
```

- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [Community groups and roles](#community-groups-and-roles)
    - [Maintainer](#maintainer)
    - [SIGs](#sigs)
    - [Users](#users)
- [Approving PRs](#approving-prs)
- [Decision making and voting](#decision-making-and-voting)
    - [Proposal process](#proposal-process)
- [Adding new SIGs/projects](#adding-new-sigsprojects)

## Code of Conduct

The TiKV community follows the [CNCF Code of Conduct](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Community groups and roles

The TiKV project is comprised of the following types of contributing groups:

- Maintainers
- Special Interest Groups (SIGs)
- Users

### Maintainer

> Maintainers are first and foremost contributors that have shown they are committed to the long term success of a project. They are the planners and designers of the TiKV project, with the authority to merge branches into the master branch. Maintainership is about building trust with the current maintainers of the project and being a person that they can depend on to make decisions in the best interest of the project in a consistent manner.

Reviewer 5: "authority to merge branches into the master branch" - this is a confusing statement - we don't merge release branches and technically we don't merge PRs - the bot does, but also any reviewer can approve the bot to merge, not just maintainers.

Author: Will  remove this.

> Maintainers are first and foremost contributors that have shown they are committed to the long term success of a project. They are the planners and designers of the TiKV project, with the authority to merge branches into the master branch. Maintainership is about building trust with the current maintainers of the project and being a person that they can depend on to make decisions in the best interest of the project in a consistent manner.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Maintainers are first and foremost contributors that have shown they are committed to the long term success of a project. They are the planners and designers of the TiKV project. Maintainership is about building trust with the current maintainers of the project and being a person that they can depend on to make decisions in the best interest of the project in a consistent manner.
```

> While maintainership indicates a valued member of the community who has demonstrated a healthy respect for the project’s aims and objectives, their work must be reviewed by the community before acceptance in an official release.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
While maintainership indicates a valued member of the community who has demonstrated a healthy respect for the project’s aims and objectives, their work must still be reviewed by the community before being accepted into an official release.
```

A Maintainer is not allowed to merge their change without approval from another person. However, they are allowed to sidestep this rule under justifiable circumstances. For example:

> - If a CI tool is broken, they may override the tool to still submit the change.

Reviewer 5: The change should still be reviewed it is just *merged* manually, so this does not quite fit.

> - Minor typos or fixes for broken tests.

Reviewer 5: I think these should still get review - if they are very minor, then they are very quick to review

> - The change was approved through other means than the standard process.

Reviewer 5: Approved by who? I think what is implied by this is that if a PR is reviewed offline, then a maintainer is free to use that review without a GitHub review (e.g, they can just write something like "reviewed by @nrc offline" in the PR and make the bot merge it).

I think emergency merging should be kept to absolute emergencies - e.g., ongoing security breach, accidentally exposed password, etc. I think it is very easy to have a relaxed attitude to "justifiable circumstances" and unintentionally cause problems.

#### How to become a Maintainer

Contributors wanting to become maintainers are expected to:

- Enable and promote successful adoptions on the user or ecosystem end

> - Actively Propose features to TiKV that are later implemented with great significance to the project direction and the eco-system

Reviewer 5: I think more important than proposing is the ongoing development - that might be all in RFCs, not code, or might be both. An antipattern is that contributor X proposes a feature without enough work, then contributor Y takes over and comes up with a working design and contributors Y and Z implement it. Just because X was the first to suggest it, doesn't mean they are a great contributor.

Author: So you mean the actual implementation and development matter more than just RFCs?

Reviewer 5: Not exactly. Developing an RFC might be important. Writing a *good* RFC is important (whether it is implemented or not). But writing a bad RFC is not important, even if somebody else develops it into a good RFC or implements it (in which case the latter two contributions are important, but the initial (bad) RFC is not).

> - Able to promote substained collaboration within the project

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Able to promote sustained collaboration within the project
```

I'm not sure what this is getting at? Do we want the candidate to have sustained contribution? Or to encourage others to collaborate or to stick around? (This last one is very hard in an open source environment and I don't think we should expect maintainers to be able to do it).

Author: OK. Removing this

> - Demonstrate a deep and comprehensive understanding of TiKV's codebase, technical goals, and directions

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Demonstrate a deep and comprehensive understanding of TiKV's architecture, technical goals, and directions
```

A maintainer who contributes a lot to the project without coding (e.g., docs, testing, or organizational) might not know the codebase deeply, but should understand how TiKV works at a high level.

Author: valid point.

> - Handle complex problems in the code implementation process

Reviewer 5: Again, I think maintainer candidates might should be eligible without coding - they might have other skills which are valuable to the project.

> A new Maintainer must be self-nominated or nominated by an existing Maintainer by updating [TiKV Maintainers](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.md#the-tikv-maintainers). This triggers a voting process that that requires supermajority votes from the current Maintainers.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
A new Maintainer must be nominated by an existing Maintainer by updating [TiKV Maintainers](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.md#the-tikv-maintainers). This triggers a voting process that that requires supermajority votes from the current Maintainers.
```

I would suggest consensus rather than voting - if somebody can't be persuaded somebody will be a good maintainer then that is a very bad sign.

> A new Maintainer must be self-nominated or nominated by an existing Maintainer by updating [TiKV Maintainers](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.md#the-tikv-maintainers). This triggers a voting process that that requires supermajority votes from the current Maintainers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A new Maintainer must be self-nominated or nominated by an existing Maintainer by updating [TiKV Maintainers](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.md#the-tikv-maintainers). This triggers a voting process that requires supermajority votes from the current Maintainers.
```

If a Maintainer is no longer interested or cannot perform the Maintainer duties listed above, they should volunteer to be moved to emeritus status. In extreme cases this can also occur by a vote of the maintainers per the voting process below.

> 

Reviewer 5: Again, I think consensus of active maintainers is better than voting.

### SIGs

The TiKV project is organized primarily into Special Interest Groups, or SIGs. Each SIG consists of contributors with a common purpose of advancing the TiKV project for a specific topic, such as Coprocessor, Transaction, or Scheduling. The goal of an SIG is to enable a distributed decision structure and code ownership, as well as providing focused forums for getting work done, making decisions, and onboarding new contributors. Every identifiable subpart of the project (e.g., repository, subdirectory, API, test, issue, PR) is intended to be owned by the corresponding SIG.

> Each SIG must have a charter that specifies its scope (topics, code repositories, and directories), responsibilities, areas of authority, how members and roles of authority/leadership are selected/granted, etc. See the [SIG charter template](/sig-governance/SIG-CHARTER-TEMPLATE.md) for details on how charters are formed and managed. SIGs should be relatively free to customize or change how they operate, within some broad guidelines and constraints imposed by this Governance and [Sig Governance](/committee/sig-governance/sig-governance.md).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Each SIG must have a charter that specifies its scope (topics, code repositories, and directories), responsibilities, areas of authority, how members and roles of authority/leadership are selected/granted, etc. See the [SIG charter template](/sig-governance/SIG-CHARTER-TEMPLATE.md) for details on how charters are formed and managed. SIGs should be relatively free to customize or change how they operate, within some broad guidelines and constraints imposed by this document and [Sig Governance](/committee/sig-governance/sig-governance.md).
```

Author: Anything changed here?

Reviewer 5: I think there was a typo which was already fixed.

SIGs are organized and operated by SIG Leads, which is a SIG internal role that oversees the health and sustained development of the SIG. Upon the initial establishment of a SIG, the maintainers will assign 2-3 Tech Leads.

#### SIG Roles

> Within a SIG, you could find your path of contribution and growth through multiple roles - Contributor, Active Contributor, Reviewer, and Committer, each with corresponding responsiblities and requirements, as listed below:

Reviewer 5: Could we merge reviewer and committer? I think there is not much difference between them

Author: There are some consistent settings with the TiDB community side, based on which they are building  this contributor credit system. Plus,  the difference between Committer is they have different  privileges. Committer is the highest level within a SIG. Let's just leave this as is for now.

| Role | Responsibilities | Requirements | Defined by |
| -----| ---------------- | ------------ | ------- |
Contributor | contribute | initial contribution (PR, issue reporting, answering questions, etc.) | `Contributor List`|

> | Active Contributor | active contributor in the community | sponsored by 2 Reviewers. Multiple contributions (8+) to the project. | `SIG member`  of the SIG |

Reviewer 4: "sponsored by 2 Reviewers. Multiple contributions (8+) to the project." -> sponsored by 2 Reviewers. Multiple contributions to the project.

I think we should remove the constraints of digital metrics.

> | Reviewer | review code contributions | Active Contributor + History of review and authorship within a SIG | `SIG member` of the SIG |

Reviewer 3: `+` seems informal.

| Committer | set directions and priorities for the sub-projects scoped to the SIG | highly experienced and active Reviewer + major contributions to a subproject | `SIG member` of the SIG|

The roles and responsibilities above are scoped to the SIG and may vary across SIGs. See more details in the corresponding SIG charter.

### Users

Users are community members who have a need for the project. They are the most important members of the community and without them the project would have no purpose. Anyone can be a user; there are no special requirements.

The project asks its users to participate in the project and community as much as possible. User contributions enable the project team to ensure that they are satisfying the needs of those users. Common user contributions include (but are not limited to):

> - evangelising about the project (e.g. a link on a website and word-of-mouth awareness raising)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- evangelizing the project (e.g. a link on a website and word-of-mouth awareness raising)
```

> - informing developers of strengths and weaknesses from a new user perspective

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- informing developers of strengths and weaknesses from a user's perspective
```

> - providing moral support

Reviewer 5: "moral support" is a bit colloquial/informal

> - providing financial support

Reviewer 5: to whom? How?

Users who continue to engage with the project and its community will often become more and more involved. Such users may find themselves becoming contributors, as described in the above section.

## Approving PRs

> Unless otherwise requested by Maintainers, PRs may be merged after receiving at least two approvals from Reviewers or higer roles.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
PRs may be merged after receiving at least two approvals from Reviewers (or more privileged) in the relevant SIGs.
```

## Decision making and voting

> Ideally, all project decisions are resolved by consensus via a PR or GitHub issue. If this is not possible, Maintainers may call a vote. Many of the day-to-day project maintenance can be done by a [lazy consensus](http://communitymgt.wikia.com/wiki/Lazy_consensus) model. But the following items must be called to vote:

Reviewer 5: I think most decisions can be discussed on GH, but some cannot (e.g., whether to ban a member of the community). I think the discussion venue (GH, private meeting, etc) is orthogonal to the decision making mechanism (voting, consensus, etc).

Author: So you are suggesting we add something like a private maintainer meeting for

Reviewer 5: I don't think we need to put it here. If the maintainers want an ad hoc or a regular meeting, then they can schedule one.

- Enforcing a Code of Conduct violation (super majority)
- Adding or removing a maintainer/committer/SIG Leads (super majority)
- Changing the governance rules in this document (super majority)
- Licensing and intellectual property changes (including new logos, wordmarks) (simple majority)
- Adding, archiving, or removing SIG/subproject (simple majority)

> - Other cases where consensus cannot be made (super majority)

Reviewer 5: These are important things, but having a vote makes them easier to happen than reaching consensus, which I think is the opposite of what is desired.

Author: What do you suggest?

Reviewer 5: Consensus for everything :-)

Author: So what are occasions for voting？

> For formal votes, a specific statement of what is being voted on should be added to the relevant github issue or PR, and a link to that issue or PR added to the maintainers meeting agenda document. Maintainers should indicate their yes/no vote on that issue or PR, and after a suitable period of time, the votes will be tallied and the outcome noted.

Reviewer 3: There may be some circumstance that needs secret ballot, though I can't think of any for now. But I'm OK to add solve it when we really need to.

Voting must comply with the [Guiding Principles](/guiding-principles.md) and [CNCF Code of Conduct](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

### Proposal process

> We use a [Request for Comments (RFC) process for any substantial changes to TiKV. This process involves an upfront design that will provide increased visibility to the community. If you're considering a PR that will bring in a new feature that may affect how TiKV is implemented, or may be a breaking change, then you should start with a RFC. We've got the process documented in [RFC repository](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs) and have a [template](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs/blob/master/template.md) for you to get started.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We use a Request for Comments (RFC) process for any substantial changes to TiKV. This process involves some upfront design that will provide increased visibility to the community. If you're considering a PR that will bring in a new feature that may affect how TiKV is implemented, or may be a breaking change, then you should start with a RFC. The process is documented in [RFC repository](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs) and have a [template](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs/blob/master/template.md) for you to get started.
```

I think for all but the most obvious RFCs, the best way to start is by discussing with the relevant SIG in an informal way, then write the RFC, perhaps with help from someone in the SIG if there is interest. This avoids wasted work and disappointment

Author: Sounds good

> We use a [Request for Comments (RFC) process for any substantial changes to TiKV. This process involves an upfront design that will provide increased visibility to the community. If you're considering a PR that will bring in a new feature that may affect how TiKV is implemented, or may be a breaking change, then you should start with a RFC. We've got the process documented in [RFC repository](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs) and have a [template](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs/blob/master/template.md) for you to get started.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We use a Request for Comments (RFC) process for any substantial changes to TiKV. This process involves an upfront design that will provide increased visibility to the community. If you're considering a PR that will bring in a new feature that may affect how TiKV is implemented, or may be a breaking change, then you should start with a RFC. We've got the process documented in [RFC repository](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs) and have a [template](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs/blob/master/template.md) for you to get started.
```

## Adding new SIGs/projects

> New SIGs or sub-projects can be added to the TiKV organization via [RFC process](#proposal-process), as long as as they adhere to the [CNCF charter](https://www.cncf.io/about/charter/) and the guidelines in this governance. Once sufficient discussions have taken place under the RFC PR, the Maintainers will call a vote to decide whether the new SIG/project should be added.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
New SIGs or sub-projects can be added to the TiKV organization via [RFC process](#proposal-process), as long as as they adhere to the [CNCF charter](https://www.cncf.io/about/charter/) and the guidelines in this governance. Once sufficient discussions have taken place under the RFC PR, the Maintainers will call a vote to decide whether the new SIG/project should be added.
```
```suggestion
New SIGs or sub-projects can be added to the TiKV organization via [RFC process](#proposal-process), as long as as they adhere to the [CNCF charter](https://www.cncf.io/about/charter/) and the guidelines in this document. Once sufficient discussions have taken place under the RFC PR, the Maintainers will call a vote to decide whether the new SIG/project should be added.
```

> **Note:**
>
> This is a **Work in Progress**. Stay tuned for more follow-up updates!

# TiKV Governance

> This document describes the governance rules of the TiKV project (organization). It is meant to be followed by all the repositories in the project and the TikV community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes the governance rules of the TiKV project (organization). It is meant to be followed by all the repositories in the project and TiKV contributors.
```

### Maintainers

While the PMC is the core management group that oversees the project, Maintainers are the technical authority in the Developer Group who function as planners and designers of each project. Maintainers set technical direction and priorities for the sub-project owned by the specific SIG, and ensure its continued health and development. They make or approve design decisions for the project - either directly or by delegating these responsibilities. Maintainers are appointed by the PMC with supermajority votes.

If a Maintainer is no longer interested or cannot perform the Maintainer duties listed above, they should volunteer to be moved to emeritus status.

See [TiKV Maintainers](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.md#the-tikv-maintainers) for the list of current Maintainers.

### Organizer Committee

The Organizer Committee consists of organizers in charge of community event or activity operations. They ensure the execution of PMC’s strategies and decisions. Specifically, the members are the leaders of user groups or community event organizers across regions.

### Developer Group

> As the cornerstone of community development, the TiKV Developer Group consists of these roles: Maintainer, Committer, Reviewer, Active Contributor, and Contributor. Each role takes corresponding responsibilities in the community. Collectively they play an important role in the robust development of TiDB. For more details, refer to [Community Membership](/community-membership.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the cornerstone of community development, the TiKV Developer Group consists of these roles: Maintainer, Committer, Reviewer, Active Contributor, and Contributor. Each role takes corresponding responsibilities in the community. Collectively they play an important role in the robust development of TiKV. For more details, refer to [Community Membership](/community-membership.md).
```

See [sig governance](/sig-governance/sig-governance.md) for more details about current SIG operating processes and mechanisms.

#### Working Groups

A Working Group is formed by community developers who gather together to accomplish a specific goal. To achieve the goal, some WGs may span over multiple SIGs, and some WGs may only focus on something specific in a specific SIG.

Each WG has its life cycle. Once the goal is completed, the group will be disbanded. The only goal of WG operations and management is to ensure that the goals set by the group are completed at the right time. In general, the working group hold periodic meetings to summarize the current project progress and determine the plans for next steps.

<!---to add Working Group governance link -->

## Contributions

Anyone can contribute to the project, regardless of their skills, as there are many ways to contribute. The various ways of contributing are described in more detail in a separate document. For details, see [Contributing to TiKV](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Decision making and voting

> Decisions are build on consensus between PMC members or Maintainers. Depending on the nature, decisions about the future of the project are made by the PMC or by Maintainers. As the technical authority, Maintainers set technical direction and priorities for the sub-project, while PMC make other high-level decisions like establishment and operation policies of sub-projects, sub-structures,promoting new Maintainers, security processes, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Decisions are build on consensus between PMC members or Maintainers. Depending on the nature, decisions about the future of the project are made by the PMC or by Maintainers. As the technical authority, Maintainers set technical direction and priorities for the sub-project, while PMC make other high-level decisions like establishment and operation policies of sub-projects, sub-structures, promoting new Maintainers, security processes, etc.
```

> Decisions are build on consensus between PMC members or Maintainers. Depending on the nature, decisions about the future of the project are made by the PMC or by Maintainers. As the technical authority, Maintainers set technical direction and priorities for the sub-project, while PMC make other high-level decisions like establishment and operation policies of sub-projects, sub-structures,promoting new Maintainers, security processes, etc.

Reviewer: Seems like maintainers should guide/choose our technical priorities?

Author: > There aren't sub project maintainers defined.

Do you mean we need to define our sub-projects clearly?

> New proposals and ideas (changes of major features, organization, or processes) can be brought to the PMC or Maintainers’ attention through the [Request for Comments (RFC)](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs) process. For the change to happen, the RFC must earn the supermajority (2/3) votes in the corresponding group.

Reviewer: This includes **all** major changes, those the PMC or maintainers are wanting to enact, or those our contributors want to push, yes?

So all new `Feature` tagged PRs to any TiKV owned project needs an RFC?

Author: Isn't it our current practice to submit RFC for any new features to be developed?

Reviewer: I want to make sure this is a "No exceptions" rule. While technically it's our practice we don't follow it religiously.

Author: Yeah I get what you mean. It's also my intention to state things as clear as possible so that there is less room not to follow them

## Conflict resolution

> In general, we prefer that technical issues and maintainer membership are amicably worked out between the persons involved. If a dispute cannot be decided independently, depending on the nature, the PMC or Maintainers can be called in to resolve the issue by voting. The same PR can be used or a separate PR can be opened in the concerned repository for voting.

Reviewer: Maintainer membership is already defined clearly above, not sure what is to be "worked out between persons"

Author: Maybe just technical issues...

Reviewer: Perhaps we should also note the CoC here.

## Adding new projects to the TiKV GitHub organization

> New projects can be added to the TiKV organization via GitHub issue discussion in one of the existing projects in the organization, as long as as they adheres to the [CNCF charter](https://www.cncf.io/about/charter/) and the guidelines in this governance. Once sufficient discussions have taken place (normally 3-5 business days but also depending on the volume of conversation), the Maintainers of the project where the issue was opened (since different projects in the organization may have different maintainers) will decide whether the new project should be added. The requester also needs to create an corresponding RFC for the change to happen, as described in [Decision Making and Voting](#decision-making-and-voting).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New projects can be added to the TiKV organization via GitHub issue discussion in one of the existing projects in the organization, as long as as they adheres to the [CNCF charter](https://www.cncf.io/about/charter/) and the guidelines in this governance. Once sufficient discussions have taken place, the Maintainers of the project where the issue was opened (since different projects in the organization may have different maintainers) will decide whether the new project should be added. The requester also needs to create an corresponding RFC for the change to happen, as described in [Decision Making and Voting](#decision-making-and-voting).
```

There is no precedent for this, so we can't claim that.

**Merit**: Ideas and contributions are accepted according to their technical merit and alignment with project objectives, scope, and design principles.

## Code of Conduct

The TiKV community follows the [TiKV Code of Conduct](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). Here are some excerpts:

> In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as contributors and maintainers pledge to making participation in our project and our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size, disability, ethnicity, sex characteristics, gender identity and expression, level of experience, education, socio-economic status, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

## Community Roles and Responsibilities

Refer to [Community Membership](/community-membership.md).

## Community Groups

![community organization](/media/governance/community_organization.png)

The project is comprised of and operated by the following subgroups:

- Project Management Committee (PMC)
- Organizer Committee
- Developer Group
    - Maintainers

>     - Special Interest Groups, SIGs (Tech Leads)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Special Interest Groups, SIGs
```

>     - Working Groups, WGs (Organizer)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Working Groups, WGs
```

### Project Management Committee

> The PMC functions as the core management team that oversees the TiKV community. The PMC has additional responsibilities over and above those of Maintainers. These responsibilities ensure the smooth running of the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PMC functions as the core management team that oversees the TiKV community. While maintainers guide the project on technical matters, the PMC is responsible for stewarding, promoting, and fostering the project. These responsibilities include ensuring the smooth running and continued growth of the project.
```

> Members of the PMC do not have significant authority over other members of the community, although it is the PMC that votes on new Maintainers or Committers, and makes all major decisions for the future with respect to TiKV, such as project-level governance policies,management of sub-structures, security processes and so on. It also makes decisions when community consensus cannot be reached. In addition, the PMC has access to the project’s private mailing list and its archives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Members of the PMC do not have significant authority over other members of the community, although it is the PMC that votes on new Maintainers or Committers, and makes all major decisions for the future with respect to TiKV, such as project-level governance policies, management of sub-structures, security processes and so on. It also makes decisions when community consensus cannot be reached. In addition, the PMC has access to the project’s private mailing list and its archives.
```

Reviewer: We should note that the PMC executed the ban/exile folks who violate the Code of Conduct, or in special cases (such as sabotage) as found by a supermajority of the PMC.

Membership of the PMC is by invitation from the existing PMC members. A nomination will result in discussion and then a vote by the existing PMC members. PMC membership votes are subject to supermajority approval of the current PMC members. See [Voting](#decision-making-and-voting) for more details on the election process.

For the first formation of the committee, our maintainers nominated a group of people who had great impact or influence on the project, including some members from PingCAP who founded TiKV. New PMC members are selected based on the rules described above. The term is one year.

The current number of PMC members is limited to 7. This is to ensure both sufficient representation of different groups in TiKV community and efficiency of decision making.

> For a list of the current PMC members, see the [PMC Members](/committee/.README.md#members).

Reviewer: Is this the correct fiile path? It's `.README.md`?
